---
title: "Stable version 1.1.0 released"
layout: post
---

Today we have released the **new version 1.1.0** of **mvvmFX**.

This time we have lots of new features added to the framework:

#### Commands
The most interesting new feature are the **Commands**.
With them you can now encapsulate actions in the ViewModel and
provide them to the View. Each Command has boolean properties showing if it is `running`
at the moment and if it `isExecutable`. The later can for example be used in the View to bind the
visibility of a button.
With `CompositeCommand`s you can compose many commands so that all sub-commands are executed
when the composite command is triggered.
See the [wiki page](https://github.com/sialcasa/mvvmFX/wiki/Commands) for a detailed explanation.

#### ModelWrapper
The second big feature is the **ModelWrapper**. This class can simplify the mapping
between the Model and the ViewModel for CRUD like applications.
Instead of duplicating the fields of a model class in the ViewModel you can now
use the `ModelWrapper` that support *reloading* (copy values from Model to ViewModel),
*resetting* (set ViewModel to default values) and *committing* (copy values from ViewModel to Model).
In the [wiki](https://github.com/sialcasa/mvvmFX/wiki/ModelWrapper) you can see a detailed example.

#### Others

Other interesting features are the possibility to inject the ResourceBundle into the ViewModel,
a *CellFactory* that simplifies the usage of mvvmFX views as items in a `ListView`.

#### utility modules
Additionally we have introduced two more Maven modules:
**mvvmfx-utils** contains utilities that are not directly related to MVVM but that are more
generally useful for JavaFX development.
We moved the `SizeBindingsBuilder` and the `ListenerManager` to from the core module to this new module
to improve the cohesion of the core module.

**mvvmfx-testing-utils** contains utils that we used for testing purposes internally for
some time. Now these utils are available for the public.
The most interesting is the `GCVerifier`
that we are using for testing situations where Garbage Collection is important.

See the whole list of changes at github:
[https://github.com/sialcasa/mvvmFX/releases/tag/mvvmfx-1.1.0](https://github.com/sialcasa/mvvmFX/releases/tag/mvvmfx-1.1.0)
